.TH BX 1 "February 2026" "bx v0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bx \- execute Bruno API collection requests from the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bx
.I request
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B bx
.I command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bx
reads .bru files from Bruno API collections and executes HTTP requests
using xh, curlie, or curl. It is a read-only consumer of Bruno collections
and never modifies .bru files.
.PP
The collection root is found by walking up from the current directory
looking for a
.I bruno.json
file, or by setting the
.B BX_COLLECTION
environment variable.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B ls
List all requests in the collection, color-coded by HTTP method.
.TP
.B envs
List available environments with variable counts.
.TP
.BI inspect " request"
Show the fully resolved request (method, URL, headers, body, auth)
without executing it.
.TP
.B help
Show help text.
.TP
.B version
Print version string.
.TP
.BI completion " shell"
Output shell completion script for bash, zsh, or fish.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e " name" "\fR, \fB\-\-env" " name"
Use a specific environment. Overrides
.BR BX_ENV .
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show the parsed, resolved request before executing.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print the shell command that would be executed without running it.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Output raw response body only. Ideal for piping to jq.
.TP
.B \-\-xh
Force xh as the HTTP client.
.TP
.B \-\-curlie
Force curlie as the HTTP client.
.TP
.B \-\-curl
Force curl as the HTTP client.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.BI \-H " \(dqKey: Value\(dq" "\fR, \fB\-\-header" " \(dqKey: Value\(dq"
Add or override a header for this request. May be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BI \-\-var " \(dqkey=val\(dq"
Override or add an environment variable for this request. May be specified multiple times.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BX_COLLECTION
Explicit path to the Bruno collection root directory.
.TP
.B BX_ENV
Default environment name.
.TP
.B BX_HTTP_CLIENT
Preferred HTTP client (xh, curlie, or curl).
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set to any value, disables colored output.
.TP
.B BX_DEBUG
When set to 1, enables debug output.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error (bad arguments, file not found, parse failure).
.TP
.B 2
No Bruno collection found.
.TP
.B 3
Ambiguous request match.
.TP
.B 4
HTTP client not found.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all requests:
.B bx ls
.TP
Execute a request with the dev environment:
.B bx get-user -e dev
.TP
Dry-run to see the curl command:
.B bx get-user -e dev --dry-run --curl
.TP
Pipe raw output to jq:
.B bx get-user -e dev --raw | jq .email
.TP
Override a variable:
.B bx get-user -e dev --var "userId=42"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1),
.BR xh (1),
.BR jq (1)
.PP
Bruno: https://www.usebruno.com/
.SH AUTHORS
bx contributors
.SH LICENSE
MIT License
